README.md, before:

# RangeSlider
A fully customizable high quality react native Slider component backed by custom native iOS and Android views with ability to select range of values.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/githuboftigran/rn-range-slider/master/demo.gif" width="298" height="176">
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/githuboftigran/rn-widgets-demo">Demo app</a>
</p>

## Installation

1. Add

   * npm: `npm install --save rn-range-slider`
   * yarn: `yarn add rn-range-slider`

2. Linking

##### For older React native versions ( < 0.60 ) you need to link the library: 

   - Run `react-native link  rn-range-slider`
   - If linking fails, follow the
     [manual linking steps](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/linking-libraries-ios.html#manual-linking)

##### For newer React native versions ( >= 0.60 ) you need to install pods for iOS:
   - cd ios && pod install && cd ..
   - For android everything works out of the box

## Usage

```RangeSlider``` should have fixed width and height.

```
import RangeSlider from 'rn-range-slider';

...

<RangeSlider
    style={{width: 160, height: 80}}
    gravity={'center'}
    min={200}
    max={1000}
    step={20}
    selectionColor="#3df"
    blankColor="#f618"
    onValueChanged={(low, high, fromUser) => {
        this.setState({rangeLow: low, rangeHigh: high})
    }}/>
/>

...
```

### Properties

Supported color formats are: **#RGB**, **#RGBA**, **#RRGGBB**, **#RRGGBBAA**


| Name |      Description      | Type | Default Value |
|----------|-----------------------|------|:-------------:|
| rangeEnabled | Slider works as an ordinary slider with 1 control if false | Boolean | **true** |
| lineWidth | Width of slider's line | Number | **4** |
| thumbRadius |  Radius of thumb (including border) | Number | **10** |
| thumbBorderWidth |  Border width of thumb | Number | **2** |
| textSize |  Size of label text | Number | **16** |
| labelBorderWidth |  Border width of label | Number | **2** |
| labelPadding |  Padding of label (distance between border and text) | Number | **4** |
| labelBorderRadius |  Border radius of label bubble | Number | **4** |
| labelTailHeight | Height of label bubble's tail | Number | **8** |
| labelGapHeight |  Gap between label and slider | Number | **4** |
| textFormat |  This string will be formatted with active value and shown in thumb | String<br/>**"Price: %d**" =><br/>"**Price: 75**"<br/>if the current value is 75 | **%d**<br/> (just the number) |
| labelStyle |  Style of the label.<br/>Label is not shown if **none** | String<br/><br/>Currently supported values:<br/>- **none**<br/>- **bubble** | **bubble** |
| gravity | Vertical gravity of drawn content | String<br/><br/>Currently supported values:<br/>- **top**<br/>- **bottom**<br/>- **center** | **top** |
| selectionColor |  Color of selected part | String | **#4286f4** |
| blankColor |  Color of unselected part | String | **#ffffff7f** |
| thumbColor |  Color of thumb | String | **#ffffff** |
| thumbBorderColor |  Color of thumb's border | String | **#cccccc** |
| labelBackgroundColor |  Color label's background | String | **#ff60ad** |
| labelBorderColor |  Color label's border | String | **#d13e85** |
| labelTextColor |  Color label's text | String | **#ffffff** |
| min |  Minimum value of slider | Number (integer) | **0** |
| max |  Maximum value of slider | Number (integer) | **100** |
| step |  Step of slider | Number (integer) | **1** |
| initialLowValue |  Initial value of lower thumb | Number (integer) | **0** |
| initialHighValue |  Initial value of higher thumb | Number (integer) | **100** |

<br/>

If **initialLowValue** ( or **initialHighValue**) is not provided, it's set to **min** (or **max**).

### Methods

To call methods of ```RangeSlider``` you need to have a reference to it's instance.<br/>
React native provides 2 ways to do it:

```
...
<RangeSlider ref="_rangeSlider" />
...
this.refs._rangeSlider.setLowValue(42);
...
```

or

```
...
<RangeSlider ref={ component => this._rangeSlider = component } />
...
this._rangeSlider.setLowValue(42);
...
```

#### Available methos

| Name |      Description      | Params |
|---|---|---|
| setLowValue | Set low value of slider | value: number |
| setHighValue | Set high value of slider | value: number |

### Callbacks

| Name |      Description    | Params |
|----------|---------------------|--------|
| onValueChanged | A callback to be called when value was changed.<br/>**fromUser** parameter is true if the value was changed because of user's interaction (not by calling **setLowValue** or **setHighValue** methods). Just like android's [OnSeekbarChangeListener](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/widget/SeekBar.OnSeekBarChangeListener). | lowValue: number<br/><br/>highValue: number<br/><br/>fromUser: boolean |
| onTouchStart | Nothing to explain I think :) | - |
| onTouchEnd | Nothing to explain here too | - |


## Known issues
* Label's corner radius is not working on iOS
* Problems with integration of react-native 0.60+

Commit message:

* Disabled prop added  * Time range support added  * Version changed to 1.3.0

README.md, after:

# RangeSlider
A fully customizable high quality react native Slider component backed by custom native iOS and Android views with ability to select range of values.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/githuboftigran/rn-range-slider/master/demo.gif" width="298" height="176">
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/githuboftigran/rn-widgets-demo">Demo app</a>
</p>

## Installation

1. Add

   * npm: `npm install --save rn-range-slider`
   * yarn: `yarn add rn-range-slider`

2. Linking

##### For older React native versions ( < 0.60 ) you need to link the library: 

   - Run `react-native link  rn-range-slider`
   - If linking fails, follow the
     [manual linking steps](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/linking-libraries-ios.html#manual-linking)

##### For newer React native versions ( >= 0.60 ) you need to install pods for iOS:
   - cd ios && pod install && cd ..
   - For android everything works out of the box

## Usage

```RangeSlider``` should have fixed width and height.

```
import RangeSlider from 'rn-range-slider';

...

<RangeSlider
    style={{width: 160, height: 80}}
    gravity={'center'}
    min={200}
    max={1000}
    step={20}
    selectionColor="#3df"
    blankColor="#f618"
    onValueChanged={(low, high, fromUser) => {
        this.setState({rangeLow: low, rangeHigh: high})
    }}/>
/>

...
```

### Properties

Supported color formats are: **#RGB**, **#RGBA**, **#RRGGBB**, **#RRGGBBAA**


| Name |      Description      | Type | Default Value |
|----------|-----------------------|------|:-------------:|
| disabled | If true user won't be able to move the slider | Boolean | **false** |
| rangeEnabled | Slider works as an ordinary slider with 1 control if false | Boolean | **true** |
| valueType | Type of slider values | String<br/><br/>Currently supported values:<br/>- **number**<br/>- **time** | **number** |
| lineWidth | Width of slider's line | Number | **4** |
| thumbRadius |  Radius of thumb (including border) | Number | **10** |
| thumbBorderWidth |  Border width of thumb | Number | **2** |
| textSize |  Size of label text | Number | **16** |
| labelBorderWidth |  Border width of label | Number | **2** |
| labelPadding |  Padding of label (distance between border and text) | Number | **4** |
| labelBorderRadius |  Border radius of label bubble | Number | **4** |
| labelTailHeight | Height of label bubble's tail | Number | **8** |
| labelGapHeight |  Gap between label and slider | Number | **4** |
| textFormat |  This string will be formatted with active value and shown in thumb.<br/>If `valueType` is set to **time** this prop will be considered as date formatter.<br/>Since this library uses native components and everything is rendered in native end, time will be formatted by [`NSDateFormatter`](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/DataFormatting/Articles/dfDateFormatting10_4.html) for iOS and [`SimpleDateFormat`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html) for Android, so make sure you are passing valid format for both platforms. | String<br/>**"Price: %d**" =><br/>"**Price: 75**"<br/>if the current value is 75 | **%d**<br/> (just the number) |
| labelStyle |  Style of the label.<br/>Label is not shown if **none** | String<br/><br/>Currently supported values:<br/>- **none**<br/>- **bubble** | **bubble** |
| gravity | Vertical gravity of drawn content | String<br/><br/>Currently supported values:<br/>- **top**<br/>- **bottom**<br/>- **center** | **top** |
| selectionColor |  Color of selected part | String | **#4286f4** |
| blankColor |  Color of unselected part | String | **#ffffff7f** |
| thumbColor |  Color of thumb | String | **#ffffff** |
| thumbBorderColor |  Color of thumb's border | String | **#cccccc** |
| labelBackgroundColor |  Color label's background | String | **#ff60ad** |
| labelBorderColor |  Color label's border | String | **#d13e85** |
| labelTextColor |  Color label's text | String | **#ffffff** |
| step |  Step of slider. If `valueType` is set to **time**, this prop wil considered as milliseconds. | Number | **1** |

Props below may have different types depending on `valueType` prop.<br/>
If `valueType` is set to **number**, these props should be `Number`s (integer).<br/>
If `valueType` is set to **time**, these props may be `Number` (integer) or `Date` and if a `Number` is passed the value will be considered as timestamp.

| Name |      Description      | Type | Default Value |
|----------|-----------------------|------|:-------------:|
| min |  Minimum value of slider | Depends on `valueType` | **0** |
| max |  Maximum value of slider | Depends on `valueType` | **100** |
| initialLowValue |  Initial value of lower thumb | Depends on `valueType` | **0** |
| initialHighValue |  Initial value of higher thumb | Depends on `valueType` | **100** |

<br/>

If **initialLowValue** ( or **initialHighValue**) is not provided, it's set to **min** (or **max**).

### Methods

To call methods of ```RangeSlider``` you need to have a reference to it's instance.<br/>
React native provides 2 ways to do it:

```
...
<RangeSlider ref="_rangeSlider" />
...
this.refs._rangeSlider.setLowValue(42);
...
```

or

```
...
<RangeSlider ref={ component => this._rangeSlider = component } />
...
this._rangeSlider.setLowValue(42);
...
```

#### Available methods

| Name |      Description      | Params |
|---|---|---|
| setLowValue | Set low value of slider | value: `Number` (or Date, if `valueType` is set to **time**) |
| setHighValue | Set high value of slider | value: `Number` (or Date, if `valueType` is set to **time**) |

### Callbacks

| Name |      Description    | Params |
|----------|---------------------|--------|
| onValueChanged | A callback to be called when value was changed.<br/><br/>Type of **lowValue** and **highValue** will be `Number` if `valueType` is **number** and `Date` if `valueType` is **time**<br/><br/>**fromUser** parameter is true if the value was changed because of user's interaction (not by calling **setLowValue** or **setHighValue** methods). Just like android's [OnSeekbarChangeListener](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/widget/SeekBar.OnSeekBarChangeListener). | lowValue: number<br/><br/>highValue: number<br/><br/>fromUser: boolean |
| onTouchStart | Nothing to explain I think :) | - |
| onTouchEnd | Nothing to explain here too | - |


## Known issues
* Label's corner radius is not working on iOS
* Problems with integration of react-native 0.60+
